One of the most popular topics in the digital consensus space (a new term for cryptocurrency 2.0 that I'm testing in beta) is the concept of decentralized autonomous entities. A number of groups are now rapidly getting involved in this space, including [Bitshares](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=en&tl=fr&hl=fr&client=webapp&u=http://bitshares.org/) (also known as Invictus Innovations) developing "decentralized autonomous companies," David Johnston from BitAngels with [decentralized applications](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=en&tl=fr&hl=fr&client=webapp&u=https://github.com/DavidJohnstonCEO/DecentralizedApplications), our own concept of [decentralized autonomous companies](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=en&tl=fr&hl=fr&client=webapp&u=http://bitcoinmagazine.com/7050/bootstrapping-a-decentralized-autonomous-corporation-part-i/) which has since evolved into much more general and not necessarily financial "decentralized autonomous organizations" (DAO); overall, it can be safely said that "DAOism" is on its way to becoming a quasi-cyber-religion. However, one of the hidden issues in this space is rather glaring: no one even knows what all these individual terms mean. What exactly is a decentralized organization, what is the difference between an organization and an application, and what even makes something autonomous in the first place? Many of us have been frustrated by the lack of consistent terminology here; as [Daniel Larimer](https://translate.google.com/website?sl=en&tl=fr&hl=fr&client=webapp&u=https://bitsharestalk.org/index.php?PHPSESSID%3D45307737804b2a1403def563cdb5ba15%26topic%3D4340.msg54700%23msg54700) from Bitshares points out, "everyone thinks a DAC is just a way to IPO your centralized company." The intention of this article will be to delve into some of these concepts and see if we can at least propose the beginnings of a coherent understanding of what all these things actually are.

### Smart Contracts

A smart contract is the simplest form of decentralized automation and is most easily and accurately defined as follows: a smart contract is a mechanism involving digital assets and two or more parties, where some or all parties put assets into it, and the assets are automatically redistributed among these parties according to a formula based on certain data that is not known at the time the contract is initiated.

An example of a smart contract would be a work contract: A wants to pay $500 to B to create a website. The contract would work as follows: A puts $500 into the contract, and the funds are locked. When B finishes the website, B can send a message to the contract asking to release the funds. If A agrees, the funds are released. If B decides not to complete the website, B can exit by sending a message to forfeit the funds. If B claims he has finished the website but A disagrees, then after a 7-day waiting period, it is up to judge J to issue a verdict in favor of either A or B.

The key property of a smart contract is simple: there are only a fixed number of parties. The parties do not all need to be known at the time of initialization; a sell order, where A offers to sell 50 units of asset A to anyone who can provide 10 units of asset B, is also a smart contract. Smart contracts can run indefinitely; hedge contracts and escrow contracts are good examples. However, smart contracts that run indefinitely should still have a fixed number of parties (for example, an entire decentralized exchange is not a smart contract), and contracts that are not intended to exist forever are smart contracts, because existing for a finite time necessarily implies the involvement of a finite number of parties.

Note that there is a gray area here: contracts that are finite on one side but infinite on the other. For example, if I want to hedge the value of my digital assets, I may wish to create a contract in which anyone can freely enter and exit. Therefore, the other side of the contract, the parties speculating on the asset at a 2x leverage, has an unlimited number of parties, but not my side of the contract. Here, I propose the following division: if the side with a limited number of parties is the side that intends to receive a specific service (i.e., is a consumer), then it is a smart contract; however, if the side with a limited number of parties is only there for profit (i.e., is a producer), then it is not.

#DAO 