With a continuous voting mechanism, attackers will find that "vote buying" becomes "vote renting." To significantly influence a continuous flow of preference diffusion, an attacker would need to continually spend funds to steer the system towards desired outcomes, rather than buying votes once to secure the desired results indefinitely. In other words, conviction voting substantially increases the costs of influence on the system over long periods of time, thus reducing the attack vector of vote buying and enhancing resistance to collusion. Conviction voting also empowers token holders who have persisted in their preference, as votes for a winning proposal gain "conviction" over time. This ensures that long-standing minority opinions are given additional weight, thereby reducing volatility introduced by new wealth influxes into established communities. Furthermore, conviction voting is resistant to sybils, as it removes the possibility for large token holders to exert undue influence by splitting their token holdings across multiple accounts.

Most last-minute voting fluctuations are caused by frictionless token movements, meaning the ability to allocate large quantities of tokens at any moment during the time-limited vote. By restricting the allocation of preferences/tokens using decay curves, we eliminate the ability of large token holders to influence votes at the last minute, instead rewarding voters who demonstrate consistent and long-standing preferences. With this design, we can eliminate the need for clunky token locks that threaten the liquidity of the system, and instead replace them with dynamic flows represented by these decay functions.

To combat voter apathy in on-chain voting, we want to make voting as simple as possible. When a member joins the community, they will be asked to assert percentages of their preference towards existing proposals, adding up to 100% in total. By using something like the ERC-888 token standard, we can allow for the automatic assertion of tokens regarding proposals without affecting token liquidity with staking locks. Since your preferences are expressed as a percentage of your token holdings, any change in your token holdings (through buying or selling) automatically updates the weight of your preference. Conviction voting also eliminates the need for complicated validation disclosure schemes and allows a user to register and update their preferences at any time, preventing users from needing to constantly register or risk "missing" a vote. Founding members of the community—we call them "hatchers"—will be incentivized to vote consistently by unlocking acquired tokens they hold based on the amount of work done in the community, which we refer to as KPI-based acquisition (i.e., how many proposals are adopted and completed and how much funding flows through the funding pool). We are also interested in implementing liquid democracy in the future to allow those who prefer to delegate their vote to more informed and trusted members of their communities, further reducing cognitive overhead for voters.

Watch conviction voting in action! Taken from our initial conviction voting model in cadCAD, this diagram shows token holders on the left asserting their preferences toward various proposals arranged on the right. The darker the line, the heavier the token weight. The blue proposals gain conviction, the yellow ones are live proposals that have been approved, and the green ones are proposals that have been approved and completed.

#Governance 