We must think outside the "time box" with a complex system design.

Conviction voting differs from other decision-making mechanisms in that it does not rank proposals in an A vs. B manner (like pairwise comparisons in Colony's Budget Box, for example)—instead, the community accepts all nominated proposals at a given time. Thus, a person might put half of their voting power behind proposal A, a quarter behind proposal B, and split the remaining quarter between proposals C and D. You can think of each proposal as a bucket and your weighted symbolic opinion as a tap, pouring your preferences into selected proposals in the proportions you choose.

A sketch showing how a member might distribute their preference among 5 submitted proposals.

The longer you maintain a preference for a certain proposal, the more that bucket fills with your conviction. Your conviction grows according to a half-life decay curve, giving more weight to that preference over time, up to a certain limit. If you decide to change your preference to a new bucket, your conviction drains from the previous proposal according to the decay function, as if there were a small hole at the bottom of each bucket. By using decay curves to define the accumulation and reduction of conviction, we introduce a temporal dynamic into these systems, bringing us closer to how systems operate in nature. By mitigating sudden token movements, we eliminate the need for arbitrary token lock periods to avoid last-minute vote fluctuations. To understand how conviction accumulation would work, play with our conviction voting baseApplet we created to test some initial system parameters, or check out this math-oriented HackMD created for ETHParis by DappLion.

As with all our components, we have taken a biomimetic approach to the design of conviction voting. The analogy of the human brain can be used to understand the CV mechanism, where the increasing collective preference for a proposal can be compared to the rising action potential in a neuron. When the collective preference for a proposal reaches a predefined threshold, the proposal is approved, just as a neuron fires when its action threshold is reached. This is how we can transform a continuous stream of individual preference data into discrete acceptance of proposals in a manner similar to what is found in nature. When we aggregate the opinions of a community in this way, we create a rich stream of temporal data of collective preference to use in group decision-making.

This graph shows the growing conviction of the community for different proposals, each represented by different colors. The data comes from a cadCAD simulation of a conviction voting environment. Proposals are triggered once they reach the threshold of the dotted line and have been online for 7 days.

#Governance 