Quadratic voting is a decision-making process where individuals allocate votes to express the degree of their preferences rather than simply the direction of their preferences. Essentially, voters can choose to pay for additional votes on a proposal to further emphasize their position. The cost of each additional vote grows exponentially: cost for the voter = (number of votes)².

Quadratic voting is based on market principles. Voters are given a total voting budget and are then free to allocate their votes as they wish. The most efficient use is to spread votes across multiple issues; however, if a voter is passionate about a particular topic, they may instead choose to buy more votes on that specific outcome, thus creating a sort of economy of preferences.

Quadratic voting can be conducted with a voting budget allocated per individual or the payment for votes can occur with real currencies, such as the native DAO governance token. In the first case, democratic equality arises from a defined distribution of votes. In the latter, the exponential cost of voting helps to diminish the influence of wealth in the voting process, but it remains a valid concern. Generally, proponents of quadratic voting prefer the distribution of an artificial currency to purchase votes to minimize the development of plutocracies.

E. Glen Weyl, a researcher at Microsoft, was the first to coin the term "quadratic voting," extending the concept beyond a previous iteration called the Vickrey-Clarke-Groves mechanism. Weyl's main motivation for quadratic voting was to combat "the tyranny of the majority." In the quadratic voting model, minorities are able to purchase additional votes to help level the playing field on issues, thereby increasing overall social welfare.

The concept of quadratic voting has been championed by Vitalik Buterin and Gitcoin, particularly in how the model can be applied to public goods funding mechanisms (you can check this out in more detail in the issue we did on Gitcoin [here](https://acceleratedcapital.substack.com/p/gitcoin-public-goods-and-the-digital)).

However, the main issue with implementing quadratic voting is Sybil attacks. A Sybil attack occurs when an attacker uses false or duplicate identities to influence outcomes. Having multiple identities in a quadratic voting framework means exponentially more voting power, leading to disproportionate influence. Scaling initiatives like [proof of personhood](https://acceleratedcapital.substack.com/p/proof-of-humanity-in-the-age-of-machines) is our best chance to adopt quadratic voting.

#Governance 