What is particularly noteworthy about the Bitcoin blockchain concerning governance, which is relevant to this thesis, is that Bitcoin is acephalous (Favier & Takkal, 2017), meaning it has no head and is not under the domination of any authority. The network is solely composed of peers, and the code is law, enforced by its algorithm. Bitcoin imposes rules of consensus emerging spontaneously from a chaotic mix of the individual interests of each blockchain actor, without violence. Thus, Bitcoin is fundamentally anarchistic as it removes the state's and banks' control over monetary production, allowing its users to exchange a currency free from any form of constraint and coercion that could be imposed by these trusted third parties. It enables emancipation from monopolistic monetary power.

This absence of coercion makes the Bitcoin monetary system deeply voluntaristic, as no one can force anyone to use bitcoins to pay any tax or commercial obligation. Where the traditional concept of a state is entirely contractual, finding its legitimacy in the consent of each individual, Bitcoin deepens this concept by offering individuals the power to withdraw from the system and exercise their "right to ignore the state" (Spencer, 1993), making social organization an extremely agile entity.

Indeed, while the system of representative democracy can be seen as a dictatorship of the majority over the minority, anarchy, founded on a system of direct participatory democracy without a vertical power structure, represents the freedom for each person to determine the path they wish to take. Bitcoin is regularly implemented by its community, and each implementation of the program requires a community vote. For example, in 2017, in response to the increasing number of Bitcoin transactions that led to a significant rise in transaction fees and the block confirmation time defined by the protocol's algorithm, part of the Bitcoin network community voted to increase the size of blocks originally limited by the code introduced in 2008 by Satoshi Nakamoto.

Ultimately, as the majority of users rejected this increase due to concerns that it would burden the blockchain's size and potentially harm decentralization by encouraging nodes with limited storage space to stop securing the network, a hard fork became necessary. A fork is a bifurcation from the source code of software into a new software. This means that the minority exercised their right to ignore the majority and created their own blockchain: Bitcoin Cash, which shares the same characteristics as Bitcoin (maximum of 21 million, halving, adjustment of PoW difficulty, etc.), except that the size of mined blocks is no longer 1MB but 8MB. As a result of the network effect contributing to scarcity, the value of Bitcoin is, as of February 2022, 130 times greater than the value of Bitcoin Cash (BCH).

Thus, the fact that the Bitcoin protocol is open source—transparent, readable by all, free, and modifiable by anyone, provided the proposed changes are accepted by the rest of the network—allows for anarchic organization in which everyone can voluntarily propose a new direction without leading to chaos. 

On the contrary, the absence of coercion promotes diversity, offering the possibility to further develop other avenues that, while rejected by the majority of the Bitcoin network, enable the minority of developers remaining on BCH to realize alternative innovations that can compete with Bitcoin, such as the addition of the CashScript project in 2019, which is a high-level language enabling the basic functionalities of smart contracts. This creates a more fertile environment for the development of each blockchain ecosystem.

Beyond the financial value of a crypto asset, its utility and community are what allow individuals to rally around a common project and thus develop avenues on blockchain technologies that extend beyond the simple financial and monetary sphere. Following Bitcoin, many projects have developed in its wake around decentralized finance (DeFi), but many others aim to revolutionize the world of work by implementing smart contracts that greatly facilitate interaction processes and automate many tasks that could be considered alienating. Organizational value is clearly a focus that the tools of Web 3.0 offer for implementation.

Indeed, the fact that the Bitcoin algorithm allows for the alignment of interests between perfect strangers around the world, encouraging them to collectively secure its network, demonstrates the added value of blockchain and cryptocurrency technologies in organization. Thus, algorithmic governance facilitates cooperation on the largest human scale.


#Philosophy