Renormalization is a key concept in ergology that involves, for a person wishing to exist as a singular being, "permanently attempting to reinterpret the norms that are proposed to them. In doing so, they try to configure their environment as their own. [...] Partly, each person manages to transgress certain norms, twisting them in a way to appropriate them. Partly, they endure these norms as something imposed from the outside" (Schwartz & Durrive, 2009, p. 259). In a democracy, renormalization is what allows legislation to evolve.

But how can we renormalize the paradox of the common decision-making place and the space of collective governance that democracy is supposed to represent? For if "representative democracy may today seem like a pleonasm, it was initially an oxymoron" (Rancière, 2005). Transforming an oxymoron into a pleonasm is reminiscent of the "newspeak" in George Orwell's novel _1984_, which consists of a lexical and syntactic simplification of language designed to make the expression of emancipatory thoughts impossible. This idea is already present in Confucius about 2500 years before Orwell: **“When words lose their meaning, people lose their freedom.”** And what is losing freedom if not losing the power of renormalization?

In the same vein, we can mention the semantic shift of the word "anarchy," which initially denotes the negation of power or the ruler (_arkhos_), towards the meaning of the word "anomie," which is the negation of order (_nomos_), signifying the absence of organization or law, and the disappearance of common values within a group (Le Robert dictionary). To renormalize their environment, every individual must have the capacity to exercise the power to decide and act for themselves, in a way that is anarchic in the etymological sense of the term, and to fully exercise the sovereignty of their singularity.

#Philosophy