Often, the measures implemented by proponents of happiness in the workplace have an effect exactly opposite to that expected. For Yves Clot and Michel Gollac, "the management of compassion leads to a compassionate despotism" (2014, p. 61). Alienation still persists. Whether the company is liberated, deliberate, humanistic, evolutionary, opalescent, appreciative, or holocratic to "make employees happy" (Renié, 2020) within the micro-organizational paradigm, this does not prevent individuals from experiencing a form of alienation due to the dispossession of the fruits of their labor induced by the macro paradigm of the neoliberal framework in which the economy unfolds.

Indeed, in the market paradigm constituted by neoliberalism, the hyper-financialization of the economy tends to create disproportionate power dynamics among the various stakeholders in the company. In particular, this is due to the influence of shareholders whose return on investment objectives, often short-term, are not aligned with the long-term goals of the companies. Thus, financial dependence on shareholders compels companies to make choices that can weigh heavily on both their customers and their employees (offshoring, budget restrictions on salaries, reduced investments, etc.).

In such a paradigm, heteronomy is inevitable within companies; it drives employees to feel "subject to a set of work norms (nomos) designed by others (hetero)" (Detchessahar, 2019, p. 22). According to Pierre-Yves Gomez, "to financialize work does not mean recognizing its contribution to profit but rather assimilating work to its contribution to profit" (2013, p. 107). Pierre-Yves Gomez then speaks of an **hypertrophy of objective work** leading to the **atrophy of the subjective and collective dimensions of work**. The financial governance imposed by the neoliberal software on companies seems to confine the collective dimension of work to a purely productivity-driven aspect.

It is the world 3 of Popper (intersubjective structures) that becomes fixed on world 1 (the production of material things) at the expense of world 2 (the subjective realm of values on which well-being depends). There is, in fact, an unavoidable duality between the company, a legal entity subjected to the will of external actors, and the individuals who work there. Since employees are not fully sovereign in their decisions, "it may well be that the autonomy and independence in the workplace, as currently promoted, serve the interests of the company more than the happiness of its employees" (Cabanas and Illouz, 2018, p. 147).

#Philosophy