Among the new forms of work organization offered by liberated, deliberative, humanistic, evolutionary teal, appreciative, or holacratic companies, the one that most closely aligns etymologically with a libertarian praxis is certainly holacracy. However, this is only an etymological similarity, as certain aspects of this alternative work structure, as designed by its creator, Brian Robertson, can act as a barrier to organizational anarchy.

Holacracy is defined as “a governance system based on the formalized implementation of collective intelligence, enabling the dissemination of decision-making mechanisms across self-organized teams” (Raquin and Morley-Pegge, 2017, p. 204). Robertson created this system influenced by Arthur Koestler’s (2013) work on “holons” and “holarchy,” which Koestler developed through philosopher Ken Wilber’s (2019) “integral approach” to consciousness, and by Gerard Endenburg’s sociocracy. According to Koestler, a holon is both a whole and part of a larger whole, while a holarchy is a hierarchy of holons—a complex structure in which each subsystem is both self-organized, autonomous, and dependent.

To better illustrate holarchy, Robertson uses the metaphor of the human body: “Each cell in your body is a holon—both an independent whole and part of a larger whole, an organ” (2016, p. 55). This organizational system implies a shift from a hierarchy of managers overseeing individuals to a “holarchy of functions within an organization filled by roles and circles” (2016, p. 64).

Ken Wilber explains, “Since every holon is both a whole/part, it has two ‘tendencies’ or ‘drives,’ if you will—it must maintain both its ‘wholeness’ and its ‘partness’” (2019, p. 48). He further adds that “a holon is not only a whole that must preserve its agency [that is, its ability to maintain its own identity], it is also part of another system, another wholeness. Thus, in addition to maintaining its own autonomy as a whole, it must simultaneously integrate into something else as a part. Its very existence depends on its ability to integrate with its environment, whether it be atoms, molecules, animals, or humans” (Wilber, 2019, p. 49).

The final influence that contributed to the creation of the holacracy system is “sociocracy.” From the Latin *societas* (society) and Greek *kratos* (power), sociocracy means governance by the *socios*, people linked by meaningful relationships. It “refers to a mode of decision-making and governance that allows an organization to behave like a living organism, self-organizing. To make this possible, sociocracy enables all parts of the organization to exercise sovereign power over the management of the whole, just as is the case in living organisms” (Endenburg & Buck, 2004, p. 2).

#Philosophy