The idea of representation is that beyond a certain scale, governance can only be centralized and administered by a small group. From this model of macro-community organization imposed by the dominant paradigm derives the majority of micro-community organizations. A paradigm is a way of seeing the world; it is, in a sense, the mental filter that allows us to structure our perceptions of reality into a more or less coherent intersubjective whole. However, a paradigm, as a representation, is not a reality in itself.

In fact, the aforementioned paradigm is completely invalidated by studies in anthropology and archaeology. "For example, almost everyone today insists that participatory democracy, or social equality, can only function in a small community or a small group of activists, but that it would be impossible to extend it to the scale of a city, a region, or a nation-state. But the evidence we have before our eyes, if we are willing to examine it, contradicts this. Egalitarian cities, even regional confederations, are historically very common" (Graeber, 2018a, p. 29). Representative democracy is a dogma.

This dogma is extremely costly for the social fabric, as this form of organization implies a certain disempowerment for the citizen, who becomes increasingly disengaged from the political sphere over which they have no control. Thus, it is appropriate to ask whether the centralizing paradigm can still meet the complex challenges of the early 21st century. If the trust relationship, which is crucial for the more effective production of common norms, erodes as distrust in centralized governance increases, how then can we renormalize the reality we share? Is decentralization not better suited to the complexity faced by humanity? Does a directed collective have room for maneuver?

This issue is not new; Alexis de Tocqueville already stated in the mid-19th century that "decentralization has not only administrative value; it has civic significance since it multiplies opportunities for citizens to engage in public affairs; it accustoms them to exercise freedom. And from the agglomeration of these local, active, and vigilant freedoms arises the most effective counterbalance to the pretensions of central power, even if supported by the anonymity of collective will" (Tocqueville, 1986, p. 62). For Tocqueville, representative democracy fosters individualistic behaviors contrary to the interests of society as a whole due to the loss of social connection that it inherently implies.

#Philosophy