The Orthodox priest Philippe Dautais deepens this term by stating: **“Metanoia means ‘beyond us,’ beyond intellect, beyond our rational reason, and refers to a movement of conversion or turning back through which man opens himself to something greater than himself within himself. Repentance is a reorientation of desire that was expressed in relation to the world and is now directed toward the One who is the Source of desire within us, for He is the Source of life”** (Dautais, 1993, p. 20). According to psychiatrist Carl Gustav Jung, it is the transformation of the psyche emerging from healing initiated by unconscious forces. It involves a complete transformation of the person, reminiscent of the change that occurs inside a chrysalis, where it melts down and is reborn in a more adaptive form, or the transformation of a tadpole into a frog (Jung, 1994). This principle thus designates the metamorphosis of a being into a superior being.

Jean-Yves Leloup, a Doctor in philosophy, psychology, and theology, invites individuals to take **“ultreïa,”** a step further, beyond all that limits them to surpass apparent constraints. **“In the face of contemporary anger, violence, and sadness, who would dare propose solutions other than economic, social, or psychological? Who would dare invite a metanoia, that is to say, a spiritual revolution? Who would dare to remind us of the words of the Ancients: ultreïa, a ‘step further,’ a ‘step beyond’ the passions, emotions, and thoughts (logismoï) that gnaw at us and agitate us?”**(2020, p. 17). This step is understood as the overcoming of limiting beliefs, as a **“spiritual revolution,”** leading individuals to reconfigure their reality.

For libertarian praxis, as a dynamic of continuous self-improvement, metanoia constitutes the necessary changes in perspective and perception that allow for the paradigm shift needed to free individuals from a still overly heteronomous professional environment. By opening to something greater than himself through reliance on himself, an individual undergoes metanoia, meaning he adopts the appropriate posture for achieving renormalization.

Decentralized governance can enable collective metanoia by removing the centralization that constrains reliance in an imposed heteronomy. Any central organism can only justify its existence through _nomos_, the law and order that it imposes on its subjects. While such heteronomy may have been acceptable as the “least worst” option, as capitalism may be considered in the 21st century, there is no longer any reason to accept it today, thanks to blockchains and the renormalization leverage offered by the tools they provide.

#Philosophy